# ES6 Modules Support Blog

apparently more browser support 

## Setup

### Traditionally

Include one single bundle that is produced using Browserify, Rollup or Webpack. A classic webiste that's not a SPA consists of server-side generated HTML, which then includes a single JS bundle

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>ES6 modules tryout</title>
    <!-- defer to not block rendering -->
    <script src="dist/bundle.js" defer></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- ... -->
  </body>
</html>
```

The combined file includes three JS files bundled with Webpack. These files maek use of ES6 modules:

```js
// app/index.js
import dep1 from './dep-1';

function getComponent () {
  var element = document.createElement('div');
  element.innerHTML = dep1();
  return element;
}

document.body.appendChild(getComponent());

// app/dep-1.js
import dep2 from './dep-2';

export default function() {
  return dep2();
}

// app/dep-2.js
export default function() {
  return 'Hello World, dependencies loaded!';
}
```

The result of this app will be a "Hello World" telling us that all files are loaded.

### Shipping a bundle

The Webpack configuration to create this bundle is relatively straightforward. There is not much happening right now except for the bundling and minification of the JS files using UglifyJS.

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path');
const UglifyJSPlugin = require('uglifyjs-webpack-plugin');

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'bundle.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  plugins: [
    new UglifyJSPlugin()
  ]
};
```

The three base files are relatively small and have a total size of 347 bytes.

```bash
$ ll app
total 24
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff    75B Mar 16 19:33 dep-1.js
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff    75B Mar  7 21:56 dep-2.js
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff   197B Mar 16 19:33 index.js
```

Ran through Webpack, the bundle was 856 bytes, which is roughly 500 bytes of boiilerplate.  These additional bytes are acceptable as it's nothing compared to the bundles most of us ship in production. Thanks to Webpack we can already use ES6 modules.

```bash
$ webpack
Hash: 4a237b1d69f142c78884
Version: webpack 2.2.1
Time: 114ms
Asset       Size        Chunks  Chunk Names
bundle.js   856 bytes   0       [emitted]  main
  [0] ./app/dep-1.js 78 bytes {0} [built]
  [1] ./app/dep-2.js 75 bytes {0} [built]
  [2] ./app/index.js 202 bytes {0} [built]
```

### The new setup using native supported ES6 modules

- First step, have the "traditional bundle" for all the browsers that don't support ES6 modules yet
- Add another script for modules for browers that do support ES6

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>ES6 modules tryout</title>
    <!-- in case ES6 modules are supported -->
    <script src="app/index.js" type="module"></script>
    <script src="dist/bundle.js" defer></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- ... -->
  </body>
</html>
```

- "Browsers are forgiving, they won't throw errors when they don't understand markup we send down the wire. Chrome just ignores the script eleement with the type it doesn't know"

Safari doesn't figure out the path for one of the module's build files.
Requires changing the following, adding a more defined concrete file path:

```js
// app/index.js

// This needs to be changed
// import dep1 from './dep-1';

// This works
import dep1 from './dep-1.js';
```

However, Safari now will load the bundle AND the three individual modules, meaning our code will be executed twice.

The solution is the `nomodule` attribute. This tells Safari that this script is the "fallback" script for the lack of ES6 modules support, and in this case shouldn't be executed.

```html
<!-- in case ES6 modules are supported -->
<script src="app/index.js" type="module"></script>
<!-- in case ES6 modules aren' supported -->
<script src="dist/bundle.js" defer nomodule></script>
```

With the combination of `type="module"` and `nomodule`, we can load a classic bundle in not supporting browsers and load Javascript modules in supporting browsers.

## Differences between modules and scripts

- JavaScript running in an ES6 module is not quite the same as in a regular script element

1. ES6 modules are running in strict mode by default
2. Top-level value of `this` is `undefined`
3. Top-level variables are local to the module
4. ES6 modules are loaded and executed asynchronously after the browser finished parsing the HTML

With #3, modules are local. No need for IIFEs around everything and no fear global variable leaking anymore

Can drop `'use strict'`

Modules load and execute **deferred** by default

`defer` is a good choice these days - [Link ->](https://calendar.perfplanet.com/2016/prefer-defer-over-async/)

## Minifying of pure ES6

The usual flow is that tools like Babel transpile to ES5, and then Uglify.js comes into play to minify this ES5 code. I want to ignore ES5 transpilation in this article: we're dealing with the future here, Chrome has 97% ES6 coverage and Safari Preview has already fabulous 100% ES6 coverage since version 10.

- In comes [Bibili](https://github.com/babel/babili)

```bash
$ babili app -d dist/modules
app/dep-1.js -> dist/modules/dep-1.js
app/dep-2.js -> dist/modules/dep-2.js
app/index.js -> dist/modules/index.js
```

```bash
$ ll dist
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff   856B Mar 16 22:32 bundle.js

$ ll dist/modules
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff    69B Mar 16 22:32 dep-1.js
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff    68B Mar 16 22:32 dep-2.js
-rw-r--r--  1 stefanjudis  staff   161B Mar 16 22:32 index.js
```

## Speeding up ES6 modules with rel=preload

Using ES6 modules we are now able to ship less code, but looking at the waterfall again we'll see that the requests are made sequentially bc of the defined dependency chain of the modules.

- Tree shaking is the cool kid in town

Build processes that can eliminate code that's not used

Rollup and Webpack support this (they bundle the **used** code, Babili minifies)

## Future is bright, but build processes are here to stay

- we won't start shipping thousands of tiny files to guarantee good compression
- we won't abandon build processes to make use of tree shaking and dead code elimination
- the most important thing to remember is that measuring is the key to success
